{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue233;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8360\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 README file for greenhouse gas and pollutant emission estimates by country.\
\
Data extracted in February 2015\
Contact: Yannick, 
\f1 Yannick.LePage@pnnl.gov\
Extracted with Python, code available on request but not properly documented. \

\f0 \
\'97\'97\'97\
\ul Fire types\ulnone :\
Excel files are named according to the type of fire for which emissions are reported:\
TEMF: Temperate forest fires\
BORF: Boreal forest fires\
DEFO: Tropical deforestation fires\
DEGR: Tropical degradation fires (non-deforestation fires)\
ALLFOREST: all non-deforestation fires (TEMF + BORF + DEGR)\
\
Other fire types are available for extraction if needed: agricultural fires, peat fires and savanna fires.\
\
\'97\'97\'97\
\ul Pollutants\
\ulnone Each excel file contains one sheet per pollutant, each named with the pollutant acronym.\
The file GFED4_Emission_Factors.xlsx gives further details on these pollutants and their emission factors per gram of burned dry matter. \
List of pollutants: 
\f2\fs22 \CocoaLigature0 ['C', 'CO2', 'CO', 'CH4', 'NMHC', 'H2', 'NOx', 'N2O', 'PM2.5','TPM','TC', 'OC', 'BC', 'SO2', 'C2H6', 'CH3OH', 'C2H5OH', 'C3H8', 'C2H2','C2H4', 'C3H6', 'C5H8', 'C10H16', 'C7H8', 'C6H6', 'C8H10', 'Toluene_lump', 'Higher_Alkenes', 'Higher_Alkanes', 'CH2O', 'C2H4O', 'C3H6O', 'NH3', 'C2H6S', 'HCN', 'HCOOH', 'CH3COOH', 'ALK4', 'MEK']
\f0\fs24 \CocoaLigature1 \
\
\'97\'97\'97\
\ul ISO 3 Countries and Time series\
\ulnone In each sheet, the data are organized per country (rows) and year (columns), with their respective value in the headers. Country name is the ISO3 3-letter acronym.\
Emissions are annual from 1996 to 2013 (note: there\'92s a 1995 column, but it\'92s all zeros).\
\
\'97 \'97 \'97 \
\ul Units\
\ulnone All emission data are provided as 
\b Tons emitted per country per year
\b0 .\
\
\'97 \'97 \'97 \
\ul References\
\ulnone We use the GFEDv4 data. Note that emission data are preliminary (full released date end of 2014 but apparently delayed). More information on the GFED website: http://www.globalfiredata.org/data.html\
\
Publications:\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf0 van der Werf, Guido R., et al. "Global fire emissions and the contribution of deforestation, savanna, forest, agricultural, and peat fires (1997\'962009)." 
\i Atmospheric Chemistry and Physics
\i0  10.23 (2010): 11707-11735.\

\i \
Andreae, M. O., and P. Merlet (2001), Emission of trace gases and aerosols from biomass burning, Global Biogeochem. Cycles, 15(4), 955\'96966, doi:{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://dx.doi.org/10.1029/2000GB001382"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 10.1029/2000GB001382}}.
\f0\i0 \

\f1\i \
Giglio, L., J. T. Randerson, and G. R. van der Werf, (2013), Analysis of daily, monthly, and annual burned area using the fourth-generation global fire emissions database (GFED4) J. Geophys. Res. Biogeosci., 118, 317\'96328, doi:{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/jgrd.20042"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 10.1002/jgrg.20042}}.\
\
Randerson, J. T., Y. Chen, G. R. van derWerf, B. M. Rogers, and D. C. Morton (2012), Global burned area and biomass burning emissions from small fires, J. Geophys. Res., 117, G04012, doi:{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://dx.doi.org/10.1029/2012JG002128"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 10.1029/2012JG002128}}.}